---
layout: blog/post
title: "Spress turns 1.1.0"
categories: [releases]
tags: [1.1.0]
---
Spress just turned 1.1.0. This release comes seven months later of the last stable 1.0.3
with interesting new goodies. This release also marks the start of Spress 2 development.
What’s changed in 1.1.0? Here are some highlights:

* **Two new scaffolding commands**: `new:post` and `new:plugin` for creating posts and plugin respectively. See the [blog post](/releases/2014/11/21/spress-1-1-0-beta-2-is-out/).
* **Built-in server and watch for changes**. With the built-in server you have a simple web server for viewing your site without any extra requirement. The new watch mode for `site:build` command enables to watch for changes and to regenerate your site automatically. See the [blog post](/news/2014/10/13/new-in-spress-1-1-built-in-server-and-watch-for-changes/).
* The new **IO API** enables to plugins for interact with the user. See the [blog post](/news/2014/05/11/new-in-spress-1-1-io-api/).
* Support for environment configurations. This is useful for writing configuration options for development and production environments. See the [blog post](/news/2014/06/12/new-in-spress-1-1-environment-configurations/).
* **Debug mode**. With this mode activated you can dump information about a template variable in your templates. 

--more Read more--

### The full changelog

* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Bug [#30](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/30): Adding source parameter to config appears to not do anything.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Support for exceptions during parsing a site with `--server` and `--watch options.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> `config.yml` is reloaded when rebuilding the site with watch mode enabled.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Spresso theme updated to 1.1.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Symfony components updated to 2.6.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> variable: `server_watch_ext` at global configuration.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Default value for layout at new:post command assigned to null.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Fixed questions for tags and categories in new:post command.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Fixed new:post help message.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Added validators for command options.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Performance of combination --server and --watch options improved.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Deleted unused variables.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> Issue [#17](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/17): 
[Twig debug mode](/news/2014/10/28/new-in-spress-1-1-debug-mode/) through configuration.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> Two new scaffolding commands: `new:post` and `new:plugin`.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> Proposal [#22](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/22): Namespace "new" in commands for creating stuff.
* <span class="label label-danger">Deprecated</span> The command `site:new` has been declared deprecated and replaced by `new:site`.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> [IO API](/news/2014/05/11/new-in-spress-1-1-io-api/) useful for interacting with the users.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> Proposal [#9](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/9): Support for environment configuration files. New key `env` for `config.yml`.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> PR [#12](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/12): Added ability to use multiple extensions on layouts.
* <span class="label label-success">New</span> Proposal [#15](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/15): Built-in server and watch for changes.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> Issue [#10](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/10): Classname with typo: EnviromentEvent. This class was replaced by EnvironmentEvent.
* <span class="label label-default">Fixed</span> PR [#14](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/14): Changed Frontmatter regex pattern to allow for CRLF line endings.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Proposal [#13](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/13): Split Spress into Spress Core and its ecosystem.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Replaces all uses of deprecated method mergeWith from ConfigServiceProvider by union method.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Proposal [#11](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/11): Improve the plugins manager for writing plugins more easily.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Decoupled options for Plugin Manager.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> PSR-4 for classloader.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Symfony components >= 2.4 and < 3 in `composer.json`.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> The default value for `url` key at global configuration is empty-string.
* <span class="label label-primary">Improved</span> Documentation fixes.
* <span class="label label-danger">Deprecated</span> The configuration options: `baseurl` and `relative_permalinks` has been declared  deprecated.

Enjoy it!