---
layout: blog/post
title: "Spress 2.2.0 released"
categories: [releases]
tags: [2.x]

changelog_support: true
---
Hi community. After several months working on Spress 2.2.0, it is here with 11
new features, 6 improvements and 8 fixes. The highlights of this release are
the [support for themes](/docs/themes), a little package manager based on
[Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) and the **jumps to PHP 5.6 dropping the
support for 5.5**. Additionally, an issue related with copying dot-files such as
`.htaccess` into `build` directory has been fixed.

## Themes

Themes let you create sites based on community-maintained templates. These ones
package layouts, includes and assets in a way that can be
[overridden by your site content](/docs/themes/#how-themes-work).
Themes are published via [Packagist.org](https://packagist.org/).
The `new:site` command has been updated to let you create a site based on any theme.
Additionaly, a `new:theme` command has been added to facilitate the task of create
a new theme. [You can get more details about this one here](/docs/themes/#creating-a-new-theme).

--more Read more--

## The package manager

A little package manager based on Composer has been introduced in this version
so that no external commands are needed to install plugins or themes.
The [`spress-installer` package has been updated](https://github.com/spress/Spress-installer)
and 3 new commands has been added: `add:plugin`, `remove:plugin` and `update:plugin`.

## The complete changelog:

* [New] Support for themes. See the new feature [#98](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/98).
* [New] Package manager with the following new commands: `new:theme`, `add:plugin`, `remove:plugin` and `update:plugin`. Additionaly, `new:site` command has been updated for scaffolding new sites using themes. See the new feature [#96](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/96).
* [New] Dropped the support for PHP 5.5. The minimum version is 5.6.
* [New] Allow default attributes on "pages" collection. See new feature [#93](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/93).
* [New] New options for applying `avoid_renderizer` feature to type of files and files belong to a path (relative to `src/content` folder). See new feature [#91](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/91).
* [New] Added a verbosity level param (optional) to  the `write` method of IOInterface.
* [New] Added verbosity and very-verbosity level messages to the `ContentManager` class.
* [New] Added support for overwriting messages to the output in IOInterface.
* [New] Added support for ask choice questions in IOInterface.
* [New] Added the method `getSpress` to `CommandEnvironmentInterface`.
* [New] Updated to using Symfony 3.2 components.
* [Improved] Updated `PluginManagerBuilder` class with support for loading several plugins
from extra->spress_class attribute of a plugin's `composer.json` file.
* [Improved] Renamed some tests with a more descritive name.
* [Improved] Fixed some descriptions in commands.
* [Improved] Replaced the use of PHPUnit_Framework_TestCase class by TestCase.
* [Improved] Deleted the `.htaccess` value from `include` key of configuration files due to the fix [#107](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/107).
* [Improved] The terms generated by TaxonomyGenerator for each item appears sorted.
* [Fixed] The `Spress-installer` plugin is included in the `composer.json` file when a new blank theme is created.
* [Fixed] Fixed an issue when loading layouts and includes of the current theme.
* [Fixed] Fixed an issue related with the presedence between the theme's assets and the site's assets.
* [Fixed] Bug [#107](https://github.com/spress/Spress/issues/107) fixed: ".htaccess not being included in build".
* [Fixed] Fixed an issue related to the convertion to array of a `Finder` class in `FilesystemDataSource` class.
* [Fixed] Avoid an error using `--force` option of `new:site` command over a
  non-empty directory that contains "hidden" directories and files.
* [Fixed] Fixed a bug related with the "pagination generator" and the draft posts. See bug #101.
* [Fixed] Fixed the `askAndHideAnswer` method of `ConsoleIO` class to use the fallback argument.

## How to get this version?

You can download Spress from the [download page](/download) or if you have a previous
version installed you can run `self-update` command:

```
$ spress self-update
```
