---
layout: page-doc-2.0
title: Blog migrations
description: Import your blog from Wordpress or CSV files to Spress
header:
  title: Blog migrations
  sub: Importing your blog to Spress
menu:
  id: doc 2.0
  title: Blog migrations
  order: 14
prettify: true
---
[Import plugin](https://github.com/spress/Spress-import) let you import posts and pages from others platforms to a Spress site.

## Platforms supported

* [CSV files](#csv-files).
* [Wordpress WXR files](#wordpress).

## How to install?

1. Go to `your-spress-site/` folder.
2. Run `composer require spress/spress-import`.
3. When you run `spress` command, import commands will be displayed under `import` namespace.

### Requirements

* [Spress](http://spress.yosymfony.com) >= 2.1.3.

Note that each importer could have additional requirements.

## How to use?

See the concrete provider.

## Source permalinks

Import plugin tries to preserve the source permalink of each item. To reach that
goal, this plugin adds the following attributes: `permalink` and `no_html_extension`.

e.g: for an item with the following permalink at source: `http://acme.com/what-is-new-this-time`
the front matter block generated will be:

```yaml
---
permalink: '/what-is-new-this-time'
no_html_extension: true
---
```

### Import from CSV files {#csv-files}

This command imports posts from a CSV file with a
[structure described below](#csv-structure).

#### CSV structure {#csv-structure}

Your CSV file will be read in with the following columns:

1. **title**
2. **permalink**
3. **content**
4. **published_at**
5. **categories** (optional): a list of terms separated by semicolon. e.g:
"news;events".
6. **tags** (optional): a list of terms separated by semicolon.
7. **markup** (optional) markup language used in content. e.g: "md", "html".
"md" by default. This value will be used as filename's extension of the imported item.

#### import:csv command

The sign of `import:csv` command is the following:

```bash
import:csv [--dry-run] [--post-layout POST-LAYOUT] [--not-replace-urls]
[--not-header] [--delimiter-character DELIMITER-CHARACTER]
[--enclosure-character ENCLOSURE-CHARACTER]
[--terms_delimiter_character TERMS-DELIMITER-CHARACTER] [--] <file>
```

Example of use:
```bash
$ spress import:csv /path-to/post.csv --post-layout=post
```
##### Options

* `--dry-run`: This option displays the items imported without actually modifying your site.
* `--post-layout`: Layout applied to posts. e.g: `--post-layout=post`.
* `--not-replace-urls`: Avoids to replace URLs in posts by local Spress URLs.
* `--not-header`: First row won't be treated as header.
* `--delimiter-character`: Sets the delimiter character. character `,` by default.
* `--enclosure-character`: Sets the enclousure character. character `"` by default.
* `--terms_delimiter_character`: Sets the delimiter character applied to terms in categories and tags columns.

##### Item attributes

List of attributes added by this provider to each item:

* `categories`: list of terms that represents the categories.
* `tags`: lists of terms that represents the tags.

### Migration from Wordpress {#wordpress}

This command imports posts from a WXR file generated by Wordpress
(community and dot com).

#### How to generate the WXR file?

The WXR file is a XML file generated by Wordpress to backup all of your blog
content (posts, pages or comments to name just a few).
This feature is supported by both [Wordpress](https://codex.wordpress.org/Tools_Export_Screen) and [Wordpress.com](https://en.support.wordpress.com/export/#export-your-content-to-another-blog-or-platform).

#### import:wordpress command

The sign of `import:wordpress` command is the following:

```bash
import:wordpress [--dry-run] [--post-layout POST-LAYOUT]
[--fetch-images] [--not-replace-urls] [--assets-dir ASSETS-DIR] [--] <file>
```
Example of use:
```bash
$ spress import:wordpress /path-to/my-wxr-file.xml --post-layout=post
```
##### Options

* `--dry-run`: This option displays the items imported without actually modifying your site.
* `--post-layout`: Layout applied to posts. e.g: `--post-layout=post`.
* `--fetch-images`: Fetch images used in the Wordpress blog.
* `--not-replace-urls`: Avoids to replace Wordpress URLs in posts by local Spress URLs.
* `--assets-dir`: Relative folder to `src` directory. `content/assets` by default.

##### Item attributes

List of attributes added by this provider to each item:

* `author`: The author of the post.
* `excerpt`: The snippet of the post.
* `categories`: list of terms that represents the categories.
* `tags`: lists of terms that represents the tags.
